World Cup qualifiers: Vietnam suffer 1-3 loss to Saudi Arabia despite early surprise.
Vietnam scored in the 3rd minute but were defeated eventually after playing most of the second half with one man down.
Vietnam showed that they had good control of the game in the first half. Nguyen Quang Hai opening the scoreboard early and his teammates putting up solid defense.
But the game turned in the second half. A referee decision following VAR review found Do Duy Manh committed a handball. Manh was given a second yellow card, the first one for reacting, believing that he had been fouled in the collision. Manh left the game while Saudi Arabia were awarded a penalty.
Salem Al-Dawsari took the penalty shot and equalized for Saudi Arabia in the 55th minute.
Down to 10 men, Vietnam rushed to strengthen their defense. Yet they suffered the second goal as Yasir Al-Shahrani scored from a header 12 minutes later.
The hosts were awarded the second penalty in the game after Que Ngoc Hai made a wrong tackle inside the box. Saleh Al-Shehri raised the scored to 3-1 in the 79th minute.
This is Vietnam's first ever game in the final round of World Cup qualification.
Their next will be against Australia in Hanoi on Sept 7.
This is Vietnam's first time in the final round of World Cup qualifiers, while Saudi Arabia have been playing at the World Cup five times before.
Both teams have shown impressive performances in the second qualifying round. Vietnam won five, drew two and only lost one game, peaked second in their group and advanced. With six victories and two draws, Saudi Arabia went into the final round as the leader of their group.
The most recent encounters between Vietnam and Saudi Arabia were in the World Cup 2002 qualifiers. Vietnam lost 0-4 in the first leg and 0-5 in the second. However, 19 years later, the gap in levels between the two teams has been shortened.
Besides playing on Saudi Arabia's home ground, Vietnam faced another disadvantage, missing some key players due to injuries.
Vietnam enter the match in the traditional red color, while Saudi Arabia in white and green.
Fahad Al-Muwallad of Saudi Arabia tries to shoot from a narrow corner but it lacks accuracy.
A clearance of Saudi Arabia's defense creates space for Nguyen Quang Hai to take a beautiful long-range shot and open the score for Vietnam.
After conceding, Saudi Arabia try to find the equalizer by making crosses from the two flanks.
Abdulelah Al-Omari gets a dangerous header and almost scores for Saudi Arabia.
Saudi Arabia make the first substitution. Midfielder Abdullah Otayf is injured and replaced by Mohamed Kanno.
Sultan Al-Ghanam dribbles from the right flank into the center and takes a shot from 25 m, but keeper Bui Tan Truong saves the shot cleanly.
Danger approaches as Al-Muwallad gets the ball past keeper Truong, but defender Do Duy Manh clears the ball before Al-Muwallad can finish.
After Nguyen Tien Linh loses the ball, Saudi Arabia deploy a counter-attack and once again keeper Truong rescues Vietnam by his great positioning.
Vietnam's Vu Van Thanh receives a yellow card for buying time.
The first half has one additional minute.
After the first 45 minutes, Vietnam are leading 1-0 by a goal of Quang Hai. Saudi Arabia have 60 percent of possession and four shots on target while Vietnam have only one, which is the opener.
Vietnam start the second half with an attack.
Quang Hai crosses inside the box but Nguyen Tien Linh can't touch the ball.
Salman Al-Faraj dribbles past Van Thanh and takes a shot. Thanh blocks the shot in time.
After checking VAR, the referee decides that Do Duy Manh has committed a handball and gives him the second yellow card.
Saudi Arabia are awarded a penalty.
Salem Al-Dawsari scores for Saudi Arabia from the penalty spot.
Vietnam are down to 10 men after Duy Manh's second yellow card.
Vietnam strengthen the defense by subbing Tran Dinh Trong in for Nguyen Tuan Anh.
Keeper Truong makes another save for Vietnam.
A cross from the right flank finds Yasir Al-Shahrani's head and he scores for Saudi Arabia.
Que Ngoc Hai makes a wrong tackle inside the box and the referee gives another penalty to Saudi Arabia.
Saleh Al-Shehri calmly scores a Panenka-style penalty to make it 3-1 for Saudi Arabia.
Nguyen Quang Hai is subbed out for Nguyen Van Toan.
Five minutes are added to the second half.
Vietnam suffer a 1-3 defeat on Saudi Arabia's ground after playing with 10 men for most of the second half.